I"¯<p>I am interested in using LiDAR (Light Detection and Ranging) for tree genera / species classification; urban and non-urban scenes.</p>

<p>I strive to advance scientific knowledge and to develop new methods and protocols for forest classification and characterization in the field of laser scanning. Having a precise inventory of trees in urban and natural forests is vital to many environmental and industrial applications, such as the timber industry, biomass estimation, and carbon estimations. My research contributes into a complete digital tree inventory, that is, to model each tree in 3D from the physical world into the virtual world. Such an inventory permits tree attributes (e.g., tree height, wood mass, or canopy cover) to be calculated and simulated precisely. Also, tree growth and yield predictions could be improved by having better tree-state data for computer modelling. For decades there have been many attempts at measuring tree attributes such as stem counts, height, diameter at breast height, and species from remotely sensed data. However, there are still many challenges and barriers to the implementation and operation in this data-intensive era, even though my published work demonstrates some feasibility under certain conditions to classify tree genera from point clouds of various density.</p>

<p>From a sensor perspective, 3D point clouds from single wavelength LiDAR scanner do not contain much spectral information, even with multiple wavelength scanners recording returns in up to 3 wavelengths. Efforts have been made in fusing image data with LiDAR but are still facing data integration problems as they have different dimensions have suffer from different kinds of sensor and environmental noises. From a machine learning perspective, many forests have diverse composition; as the number of categories required for classification increase, the complexity of the problem also increases. In many cases, classification features are incapable of differentiating geometrically similar species. Conversely, trees of a common species can grow geometrically differently under different environmental conditions, making generalization difficult. Also, many natural forests tend to have trees growing close together, allowing their crowns to intersect, making individual tree detection and segmentation an even more difficult task. Errors generated from individual tree detection and segmentation will further propagate to the classification phase and introduce even further problems.</p>

<p>To overcome these challenges, my research interests revolve around three interrelated and complementary topics. First, sensors for 3D modelling, including multiple sensors on the same or different platforms and the integration of different types of sensors such as LiDAR and spectral cameras. New studies are developing methodologies for GPS denied environment locating objects by sensor fusion and photogrammetry techniques. This technology is useful in dense forests where physical access is hindered. Second, techniques in machine learning are designed for handling large and complex quantities of data. In data science, deep learning has gained much attention for its outstanding performance on detection and classification problems. Yet these methods are not being tested extensively for data from natural environments. Deep learning (representation learning) requires a larger quantity of training data compared to the traditional non-representation learning methods and yet, these data are difficult to prepare and currently has limited availability. Third, 3D or 4D Mapping and modelling with GIS and other virtual reality models for trees is emerging as a powerful tool for vegetation growth prediction and visualization purposes. My previous, current, and future research will bring innovations that will further extend machine learning to new sensor-fusion domains that emphasize the complexity of 3D and 4D point cloud data collection in heterogeneous forest environments.</p>
:ET